Problem Statement

HELP International is an international humanitarian NGO committed to fighting poverty and providing the people of backward countries with basic amenities and relief during the time of disasters and natural calamities. It regularly runs operational projects, along with advocacy drives, to raise awareness and for funding purposes.

After the recent funding programmes, they were able to raise around $10 million. Now, the CEO of the NGO needs to decide how to use this money strategically and effectively. The significant issues that arise while taking these decisions are mostly related to choosing the countries that are in dire need of aid.

This is where you come in as a data analyst. Your job is to categorise the countries using some socio-economic and health factors that determine the overall development of the country. Then, you need to suggest the countries that the CEO needs to focus on the most. The data sets containing those socio-economic factors and the corresponding data dictionary are provided below.

Objectives

Your main task is to cluster the countries by the factors mentioned above and then present your solution and recommendations to the CEO using a PPT. The following approach is suggested:

Start off with the necessary data inspection and EDA tasks suitable for this data set – data cleaning, univariate analysis, bivariate analysis, etc.
You must perform the outlier analysis on the data set. However, you do have the flexibility of not removing the outliers if it suits the business needs or a lot of countries are getting removed. All you need to do is find the outliers in the data set, and then choose whether to keep them or remove them, depending on the results you get.
Try K-means clustering on this data set to create the clusters.
Analyse the clusters and identify the ones that are in dire need of aid. You can analyse the clusters by comparing how these three variables (gdpp, child_mort and income) vary for each cluster of countries, and recognise and differentiate the clusters of developed countries from the clusters of underdeveloped countries.
Also, you need to perform visualisations on the clusters that have been formed. You can do this by choosing any two of the three variables mentioned above on the X–Y axes and plotting a scatter plot of all the countries and differentiating the clusters. Make sure you create visualisations for all the three pairs. You can also choose other types of plots like boxplots.
Make sure that you report at least five countries that are in dire need of aid from the analysis work that you perform.
